My background is in Formal Methods (FM), a branch of theoretical
computer science, that supplies mathematical foundations and rigorous
methodologies for the engineering and analysis of systems with a
digital component.  The three cornerstones of FM are modeling,
verification and synthesis of such systems.

My focus has been on infinite-state systems: general mathematical
objects that are important in computer science because, besides
modeling software, they are natural models of, e.g., security
protocols, multi-threaded programs, and distributed systems with an
unknown or unbounded number of sessions, threads, or processes.

Specifically, I have worked on the following models of computation:
Markov chains, timed systems, multi-agent systems that communicate via
token-passing, broadcast, asynchronous rendezvous,  mobile agents that
can detect collisions, petri-nets, and others.  I have expertise in
standard specification languages (e.g., classic modal logics, temporal
modal logics, logics for strategic reasoning, first- and second-order
logics) as well as quantitative extensions of these (e.g., by
quantifiers that can count, and aggregation functions). 

In my work I have used and developed techniques based on mathematical
logic, automata theory, game theory and graph theory. 

My research trajectory has been shifting from the investigation of
abstract mathematical objects [C19 - C29] towards more concrete
systems [C1 - C18] inspired by distributed computing, artificial
intelligence, and multi-agent systems. 

The natural research group for me to be affiliated with at IMT is
SysMA (System Modeling and Analysis).  Although the current focus of
SysMA is modeling and analysis, my expertise in synthesis would be a
valuable addition. 

I will collaborate with PhD students interested in my research area.
Exciting PhD topics include parameterised synthesis (known as
"generalised planning" in the AI literature), rational synthesis (a
topic at the intersection of game-theory and FM), foundations and
applications of quantitative specification languages to privacy and
security.

I have built a large network of collaborators, and have connections
with a number of groups, including those in Naples, Rome, Imperial,
Oxford, Paris, Graz and Vienna.  I will share these collaborations
with students and faculty at IMT.

I project two main research activities at IMT.

(1) I intend to investigate Formal Methods for Multi-agent systems.

I will focus on Multi-agent systems (MAS), including parameterised
systems and networks. These involve multiple individual entites (these
may be people, software, robots, etc.) each with their own goals. Such
systems can be viewed as multi-player games, and thus notions from
game-theory (e.g., strategies, knowledge, and equilibria) are used to
reason about them. Agents in realistic MAS often lack information
about other agents and the environment, and this is often categorised
in one of two ways: a) incomplete information and b) imperfect
information. In all cases, the basic theoretical problem is to find
classes of MAS in which verification is decidable, and in this case,
of low complexity.

In a little more detail, incomplete-information refers to uncertainty
about the environment (i.e., the structure of the game). I have
considered two sources of incomplete information for MAS: the number
of agents may not be known [B1, C9, C13, C14, C17, C18, J1, J3]; and
the environment the agents are operating in is partially-known [C7,
C12, C16]. 

Imperfect information refers to the fact that even if agents have
certainty about the structure of the system, they may not know exactly
which state the system is in. The associated logics for reasoning
about such systems are called epistemic logics. I have studied
strategic-epistemic logics in [C1, C2, C3, C8, C10], including ones in
which one can express equilibria.

(2) A second goal, building on the first, and arguably more important,
is that I intend contribute to building bridges between the Formal
Methods (FM) and the Multi-agent systems (MAS)/Artificial Intelligence
(AI) communities.

There is a non-trivial overlap between these communities, both on the
level of problems and gross techniques. For instance, "synthesis" in
FM is called "planning" in AI; and many influential languages in AI
and FM are explicitly based on mathematical logic (e.g., situation
calculus, alternating-time temporal logic). That said, the communities
have often focuses on different issues, and there is much scope to
bring not just results but also *insights* from one community to the
other.

Although I come from the Formal Methods community, I have recently
contributed a number of works that import, adapt, and extend
methodologies and techniques from FM to MAS/AI [C1 - C10, C12 - C18].

At IMT, I intend to further and deepen this direction. In particular,
the MAS/AI community is designing and analysing many modern and
topical systems, e.g., privacy preserving databases, opinion diffusion
in social networks, mechanism design in economic networks, disease
spread in epidemiological models.  All of these, and many others, have
and can benefit from methodologies and techniques developed in FM.

