presentation 50 minutes

10-15 what youve done
area A,B,C

10-15 minutes 
current work 1 example

10-15 future plans
area X mention people in dept
area Y mention people in dept
area Z mention people in dept
be credible... justification is broad mindedness

10-15 future work 
- mention very much interested in DB direction (not a DB person)
- connect with people in our department
- connect with statistics department
- connect a little with mathematics
- datascience
- AI

robert/jill want database

BROAD
research: don't be technical
e.g., jiamou's talk very nice. 

split work chronologically
showed he is broad
don't say you're a theoretician; diverged from theory.

for each area give example of paper published
- A*/top conference

talk about broadness for 10-15 minutes

connections with machine learning; alexei computation biology; georg wicker (new lecturer) ML; pat + mike; jill former postdoc yungsin(!) they co-supervise 
couple of students; hill dobbie; mathew egbert(!); sebastian link (!); jill(!); asghar - easily related with security;

ian watson - a little bit out


probabilistic MODELS (statistics department)

RECENT
20 minutes - talk about one or two recent problems and make it as simple 
as problem
- show depth; don't be technical

- formulate problem
- say why interesting
- give couple of examples
- roughly say how you solve problems
- and say what is benefit of this

AS ACCESSIBLE TO GENERAL AUDIENCE AS POSSIBLE
DON'T BE TECHNICAL

explain research depending on place/time
NZ/USA
CORNELL
AUSTRIA
ITALY

mention vardi and collaborators

INTERVIEW
1 hour

search committee have a set of prepared questions
about 10 questions
whom can you collaborate
happy to supervise research project
why are you coming to auckland, why not stay elsewhere
what types of things can you teach
where can you contribute in department
emphasise open to teach many areas; better not to mention theory 
(robert "we have too many theoreticians")
show have large scope of interests

prepare nice questions back, e.g., how do you get funding? how do you get phd students? easy to find msc students?
are there possibilities to collaborate with industry? what is the success rate of getting marsden 
fund? would i be successful in getting marsden? 
what do you think of quality of graduate/high-level undergrad students?
make them talk... show you are interested in working with students

--
open to research project supervision (chinese students)
teach large classes not a problem
stage 3 has average of 200 students in one class

teach at most 1.5 courses per year = 50 hours of lecture-time (the rest you can control) MAX
(usually graduate/stage 3 courses; don't mention this in interview)
important to have a good teaching team
e.g., cs 225 - two people teach; taught 50/50; team = markers + tutors (bmk will help choosing these people if 
(first three years at most 1)

they want to see energy

TEACHING PORTFOLIO
- underlying views on teaching
- "You could include your current teaching experience and related activities and future plans or developments."
taught at here and there...
supervise students...
- based on my teaching experience i've developed my own teaching philosophy - list what you think is important 
to be a successful teacher
- research and teaching are inseparable
- when students listen to teacher they understand subject better, views of lecturer, get this from research-driven teachers
can't get this from books
- believe every student has talent and goal is to find this talent; all students are equal

future plans
- open to teach any course
- happy to be involved in data science program
- happy to supervise projects
- 2019: change in teaching... there will be capstone projects for those students in last year of graduation with cs degree; 
they need to select the projects; there should be supervisor; 300 grads/50 academics; put 3-4 people into one team; based on 
things they have learned already; give examples of project topics
- 

teaching in brief: 3/4 pages
- what and where
- awards
- been involved in designing course
- achieving learning outcomes; how do you achieve learning outcomes; emphasises teamwork with students; designing good assignments
- student evaluations
- example of student successes

teaching philosophy: PRINCIPLES
+ teaching and research inseparable
+ motivation matters; motivating students is important
+ training critical and creative students is important; train to think about the problems critically and creatively at same time
+ preparation for lectures matters
+ use your strength; show teacher and human being; have other interests; poem, soccer skills
+ be flexible; when you lecture look at students and feel they are not following you; stop and engage with the class; don't be over-prepared; 
leave room for improvisation
+ learning os two-way; you also learn from them (how to teach); in long-run they will be managers/doctors
+ self-assessment is important
+ going to colleagues lectures is important; learn what they are talking about and connect what they teach with what you teach; learn how to good job (can also 
see how not to teach)

care about how to educate students; how to teach students; in that sense can be very closer to CS EDUCATION (paul denny and andrew luxton-reilly)

jill: "we know who he is"... show i know who the department is...
potentially can work with X,Y,Z
"data science = analysis of lots of data"

be confident but not over-confident

tell a story...
need to sell what you are doing...
40 teaching/40 research/20 admin


