3346 Reasoning about Multi-Objective Protocols with Pareto Optimality in Agents -Abstract: In real-world applications, an agent often has multiple, potentially conflicting objectives to pursue. Each objective may have several goals of different priorities, representing different satisfactory levels of achieving the objective. Aiming to achieve the best, the agent may need to behave in a Pareto-optimal way. The community of model checking multiagent systems has made notable advances on reasoning about agents' behaviours with respect to their goals. However, existing framework does not work with agents' conflicting objectives and their Pareto-optimal behaviours. In this paper, we complement this with a novel syntactic structure to describe agent's multi-objectives with prioritised goals. The semantics of the structure captures the Pareto-optimal behaviour of an agent. We study the resulting model checking problem and give its complexity results for multiagent systems of both complete information and incomplete information.

3492 Linearly Constrained Stochastic Strategy -Abstract: This paper introduces linearly constrained strategy to the automated verification of probabilistic systems. Existing automated verification of a Markov decision process over a PCTL formula is to find an optimal strategy such that the strategy induced discrete-time Markov chain satisfies the formula. We extend this framework with a means to impose additional constraints on the strategy, in order to provide the freedom for the users to precisely identify the strategy they prefer. The constraints are expressed with linear expressions over local strategic behaviour. We study the complexity of the new framework and show that it is between NP and PSPACE for stochastic strategies and is NP-complete for deterministic strategies. The applications of linearly constrained strategy include uniform strategy which requires the same local behaviour on indistinguishable states. Moreover, contrary to the restrictions of agents' strategic ability by linear constraints, the enhancement of agents' strategy ability by their mutual communication is also studied. We show that the consideration of communication is for free, i.e., it does not increase the complexity of the problem.

3549 Synthesis of Orchestrations of Transducers for Manufacturing -Abstract: In this paper, we model manufacturing processes and facilities as transducers (automata with output). The problem of whether a given manufacturing process can be realized by a given set of manufacturing resources can then be stated as an orchestration problem for transducers. We first consider the conceptually simpler case of uni-transducers (transducers with a single input and a single output port), and show that synthesizing orchestrations for uni-transducers is EXPTIME-complete. Surprisingly, the complexity remains the same for the more expressive multi-transducer setting, where transducers have multiple input and output ports and the orchestration is in charge of dynamically connecting ports during execution.

3630 Verification of Declarative Distributed Systems: Decidability and Complexity -Abstract: Logic-based languages, such as Datalog and Answer Set Programming, have been recently put forward as a data-centric model to effectively specify and implement network services and protocols, providing the basis for declarative distributed computing. In this paradigm, a distributed system consists of multiple computation nodes, each declaratively evolving its internal database using a logic program, and exchanging data with the other nodes through messages. A rigorous, comprehensive characterization of the decidability and complexity of verification of temporal properties in declarative distributed systems, is yet to come. We provide a stepping stone towards this goal, considering the case where the network is a fixed connected graph, and nodes can inject fresh data from the external world into their databases.In this setting, we study verification of convergence properties and of more sophisticated properties expressed using first-order CTL. We study the problem from different angles, delineating the decidability frontier of verification and providing tight complexity bounds for the decidable cases.

3686 Probabilistic Verification of Deep Neural Networks -Abstract: Deep neural networks have achieved state-of-the-art performance on tasks such as speech and visual recognition. However,serious concerns have been raised on their safety in critical applications, exhibited by their misclassification due to the existence of adversarial examples.In this paper, we propose to extend the well-founded model checking techniques to work with DNNs. We show that, after discretising the function represented by DNN, probabilistic temporal logic formulas can be used to describe interesting properties such as robustness, existence of pockets, and some statistics properties. The approach has been implemented into a tool, and the experimental results are given to show its effectiveness.


3724 Temporal Planning as Refinement-Based Model Checking -Abstract: Planning as model checking based on source-to-source compilations has found increasing attention. Previously proposed approaches for temporal and hybrid planning are based on static translations, in the sense that the resulting model checking problems are uniquely defined by the given input planning problems. As a drawback, the translations can become too large to beefficiently solvable.In this paper, we address propositional temporal planning, lifting static translations to a more flexible framework. Our framework is based on a refinement cycle that allows for adaptively computing suitable translations of increasing size. Our experiments ontemporal IPC domains show that the resulting translations to timed automata often become succinct, resulting in promising performance when applied with the directed model checker MCTA.
