typical reviewer confidence = 4, high, one short of expert.

Schewe: I tried to follow the paper without reverting to the appendix. This proved difficult in many points, which might be down to my limitation, of course. Yet, this is all I have as measure. As intuition failed me at some points, I would currently hesitate to support acceptance, though I also won't oppose it if others find the presentation intuitive.

Points where I had problems following the intuition:


Dietmar:
The technical contents relies on models and results that are familiar to the GANDALF
audience, and the authors present a wealth of clear examples to their arguments.
The results do not answer standing open questions.
Instead, the paper has the merit of formulating new questions,
illustrating that they matter, and giving clear answers for a part of them.

Sangier:
The proof is definitively difficult to parse and more intuitions
should be provided. I suggest the authors to give more example and
to give the intuitions on what they are trying to do. It took me
already a while to understand the subsection Initially Normalized
Clock Regions, which was the easiest one. The presentation is too
dry. I have as well the feeling that the authors could have
investigated more some research directions. In fact, it seems that
the proposed translation is exponential, does this mean that CLTLoc
over uninitialized timed language is more succinct ? They may also
justify a bit more the reasons why this problem is interesting.

Novotny:
 The results are mostly not surprising given the state of the art, 
 and the techniques used to obtain them are neither novel or difficult: 
 they mostly consist of simple reductions to known types of games or 
 using minor variants of techniques used for these other types. 
 
 Krish:
 Admittedly I have little exposure to the topic. The authors present a good introduction
on the subject and the difficulty of the problem, and also the solution. As a non-expert,
I could not judge the novelty or impact of the result. It seems a natural problem to
study and provide solution. I am weakly in favor of acceptance, but expert reviewers
comment should be weighed more.

Enqvist:
I have rated my confidence in reviewing this paper as "low", since I was not familiar with the logic HFL before and would have needed significantly more time to get properly acquainted with it. I have thus not been able to check the proofs in detail and cannot judge the technical soundness of the paper. What I can do is give my impressions of the paper on the assumption that it is technically correct:
