Big splash: effiicent simulation of natural phenomena at extremely large scales

Computational simulations of natural phenomena are essential in science, engineering, product design, architecture and computer graphics applications.

X is essential in Y.

However, X + Z is still unfeasible.

State of the art is too fragile, too costly or to ocrude to capture ...

Doing W will improve the situation, but progress will only be incremental until address the problem at its source.

I propose two main approaches to this problem of ...

My first avenue of research combines A and B: I will investigage ...
I will also develop methods for ...

My second main research direction is ...: we will do X with Y.

The novel approaches resulting from this work will undoubtedly synergize to enable 
XX and understanding of complciated natural and biliogical process that are presently unfeasible to compiute.

PICTURE on cover of important journal.

A. extended synopsis of the sci proposal (5 pages)
TITLE
(repeat abstract more or less)

SOA
[1 par introducing the main method for SoA]
The challenge is...

subheadings, in each give mostly your own contributions to SoA.

OBJECTIVES
the overall goal of this proeject is to \bf develop new algorithms for XXX that require dramatically less computation 
than state of the art (!compare to SOA). We hope to accomplish this goal by investigating two key hypothesis.

\box{Hyp 1: We can improve simulation efficiency by utilizing as much analytical information as possible. [say a little more]}
\box{\Hyp 2: We can speed up simulation manipulation tasks by re-using existing simulation data. ...we can do XX to make this process 
dramatically more interactive.}

[use dramatic words]

Building on these hypotheses, we can formulate the aims of this project:

\box{Aim 1. Develpo efficient computational representations of natural phenomena inspiured by closed-form solutions.
Aim 2. Develop algorithms for intelligently re-using exisint simulation data}

[efficient, inspired by, intelligently]

Plan of execution: we will achieve htese aims through specifically-targeted projects.
Project 1 develops XX (aim 1)
Project 2 develops XX (aim 1)...

Project x: title
intro to project

subheadings [don't really tell a story though]
...
Standard methods are bound/limited by XXX 
Our proposed approach is immune to XXX because 
The simplicity of this strategy will likely lead to rapid adoption by practitioners.

This approach should extend to XXX, and we plan to further invesitage problems on YYY. Our preliminary 
results show remarkable promise: XXX.

Summary, timeline, and risk management: we will first work on wavefront simulation, and subsequently focus on ...
X and Y will be pursude in parallel.
Preliminary results are promising, but breakthroughs will occur even if we only meet our goals halfway. for example, finding XXX is imposibbile, but we found that YY still
dramatically outperform SoA.
//
We plan to advance the soa on XX by considering Y and clever use of Z. Each stagfe of this project will be implemented sequentially, comprising a single PhD student disdertation. The chosen student has a strong background in XXX. and has already produced prominsing results... The biggest difficulty is XX. Potential solutions are XX. 
Regardless, these ideas will be valid for computer graphics, where details and plausability are the priority.

[Show that you have a track record of impriving soa, even if goals are very lofty]

[At the end of each subheading, is a sentence saying how great/novel the idea is]
these techniques are entirely novel; no other methos is able to iXXX.
this strategy will be far more efficient than soa which YYY.
The result of these techinuqes will be several novel and cost-effective ways to ZZZ.
None of these ideas have been explored before (ttbook), especially for complicated YYY. 
These new approaches could inspires servarl new approaches.
Ours will be the first method for computing ... and it will be useful to the fields of AA and YY.

TIME PLAN
th85% of time to project, 15% supervising gtroup memebers who have independent fellowships. 
require two post-docs, 2 phd students per year for 5 years. phd students will carry out projects 2 and 3.
projects 1 and 4 require postdocs with strong existing  skills in XXX.

REFERENCES
own name in bold

CV
education 
2010 Phd
2004 BsC
Current 
2011 -
previous
2008 - 2009
Fellowships and awards
supervision of grad students and postdocs
teaching activities
institutional responsibilities
commissions of trust (membership of technical papers committees, reviewer... 2014 xxx, 2011 - xxx
membershipof scientific socieities
major collaborations
2012 - name (afffil), topic

Section c
early achievements track record
overview: XX pubs, YY cites, ZZ hindex, Phd in Dec 2010, Fac position immed afte rPhd, x pubvs in XX, 3 pubs in YY (top journal in computer graphics)

5 rep publications (citation num excludes self citation; mention if without phd supervisor)
this paper ... 

invited presentations at peer-reviewed confs

other selected invited lecs

ptrizess and awards

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
B2 (15 pages)
fleshed out version of B1
(used almost all 15 pages, incl refs)

Section a. so and objectives
SOA 2 pages.
PI's contribution to the field: I have published xx papers in the field, bla bla bla. organised course at SIGGRAPH ...

OBJECTIVES
hypothesis, aims

Section b. methodology

project X.
...

Summary
We plan to advance the soa in XX by YY.

Each stage of this project will be implement by my phd student.....
i expect that each major step of this project will result in a stong pub for this student.

Risk management
We have already laid the groundwork for several of these ideas and have confidence in their feasibility.
while these prels are promising, we believe breakthroughs will pccur even if 
we only meet our goals partway. e.g., ...
//
furhter along, we may encounver difficulty XX because YY. howeover, our initial investigations indidicate that 
we may be able to safely interpret XXX as a guideline instead of a hard constraint.

EVAL criteria
below, i list a few concrete examples of challenging feats that will be possible at the end of this project. 
our achievements of these goals can be viewed as a measuring stick for our research progress.
Simulating the impossible: this project will enable simultaions of phenon that are so exceedingly 
complex that they are off-limits fo rcurrent algorithms. some exampels are ...
//
our approach will fundamentally change the current workflow for xxx. reduce time... enable XXX. 

IMPACT and RELEVANCe
scient impact: this proejct will make a strong impact on field of XX. 
1. it has potential to solve XX or outpeform YY. 
2. each proposed solution comres from an unxepcted direction, which will inspire research to explore many 
creative new techniques in num analysis, comp physics, ...

This work will have sig sic impact outside of comp graph. 

Impact on career: the success will attract attention of many experts in the field, because it solves servarl difficult problems 
with nondstandard approaches. this positive social impact can help bring more strong international rese to the institute. impact careers of 2 phds.
the reserachers will learn many imporatnc concepts in phytiscs,geomet and num analy. 

Social impoact:
make life easier for envineers, designers, artists, causal internet users. students.
also facitlite or inspire a earning for scinetific understanding. 
influence VR, movies, ...

[expect average of 4 pubs per year
