Originality

Reviewers should recognise and reward papers that propose genuinely new ideas. As a reviewer you should try to assess whether the ideas are truly new. Novel combinations, adaptations or extensions of existing ideas are also valuable.

Technical Quality
Are the results technically sound? Are there obvious flaws in the conceptual approach? Are claims well-supported by theoretical analysis or experimental results? Are the experiments well thought out and convincing? Will it be possible for other researchers to replicate these results? Is the evaluation appropriate? Did the authors clearly assess both the strengths and weaknesses of their approach?

Significance
Is this a significant advance in the state of the art? Is this a paper that people are likely to read and cite? Does the paper address an important problem? Does it open new research directions? Is it a paper that is likely to have a lasting impact?

Relevance
Is the paper fully within the scope of the conference? Will the questions and results of the paper be of interest to researchers in the field? Did the authors ignore (or appear unaware of) highly relevant prior work? Is previous work in the area of the paper properly cited?

Quality of writing
Is the paper clearly written? Is there a good use of examples and figures? Is it well organized? Are there problems with style and grammar? Are there issues with typos, formatting, references, etc.? It may be better to advise the authors to revise a paper and submit to a later conference, than to accept and publish a poorly-written version. However, if the paper is likely to be accepted, please make suggestions to improve the clarity of the paper, and provide details of typos.

Overall Score
10- This is best-paper material. 9- An excellent paper, a very strong accept. 8-A very good paper, a strong accept 7-A good paper, accept. 6-A good paper overall. I vote for acceptance, although would not be upset if it were rejected because of the low acceptance rate. 5-Decent paper, but may be below the IJCAI threshold. I tend to vote for rejecting it, although would not be upset if it were accepted. 4-I vote for rejecting it, but could be persuaded otherwise. 3-A weak paper, just not good enough. 2-A clear rejection. I vote and argue for rejection. Clearly below the standards of the conference. 1-A very strong rejection. I will actively fight for rejection.

Confidence on your assessment
10-My own current research is on the topic of the paper, 9-I have undertaken research on the topic of the paper, 8-I am an expert in this area, 7-I have up-to-date knowledge in the area, 6-I don't have complete knowledge of the area, but can assess the value of the work, 5-I have a general understanding of the area, 4-My assessment is an informed guess, 3-My knowledge in the area is limited, 2-My knowledge in the area is very limited, 1-My assessment can be wrong
Comments to Authors. Make sure you substantiate all the scores for the different criteria above. Give informative content. Be constructive. Write your comments in the same way you would like to receive comments on your own papers.
Confidential Comments (Not visible to the authors)

