Optimisation for next generation machine learning. As more and more data are being collected, it is important to build intelligent systems which will can analyse these data efficiently. This project will take design and analyse new algorithms which take advantage of emerging paradigms in hardware such as multicore processors, graphic processing units (GPU), and cluster computers to achieve this goal.


Autonomous Agents and Systems with General Intelligence. Autonomous software agents and robotic systems with general intelligence are frontier technologies that have the potential to significantly enhance Australia's leading role in information and communication technology. A new generation of intelligent software is provided by computer programs that can adapt fully automatically to previously unknown situations without the need to be re-programmed. Innovative products will also emerge from a new generation of autonomous systems that are able to adapt to different environments.

The role of strong duality in computer vision. This project aims to undertake research in the fields of computer vision and optimization that will have a significant impact on the design of numerical algorithms for solving a wide range of problems in Computer Vision, Virtual Reality and Robotic Navigation. This project will advance understanding of a broad class of problems related to how computers interpret images. An expected outcome is the generation of novel mathematical theory and numerical algorithms capable of fundamentally changing the way problems relevant to a wide range of vision-related applications are solved. This should offer Australia a strong competitive advantage as a leader in scientific innovation in the areas of Computer Vision, Virtual Reality and Robotics and Autonomous Systems.

Foundations of Vision Based Control of Robotic Vehicles. Automated and partially automated robotic vehicles are an emerging technology in society. The safety and performance of such systems depends crucially on their sensing and control algorithms. Vision sensing is one of the few sensor modalities that has the potential to adequately represent the complexity of a real world environment. By providing simple and effective vision based control algorithms this project develops Frontier Technologies for Building and Transforming Australian Industries by enabling a wide range of robotic vehicle applications, including aerial, submersible, and wheeled vehicles.


---
Representation and reasoning for cognitive personal robotics. Robotic systems are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and prevalent. Developing complex and maintainable robot programs to control these systems remains a significant challenge particularly given the diversity of robot platforms and application areas. This project aims to build on advances in problem solving and programming paradigms in Artificial Intelligence, applying them to learning sophisticated robot programs. These techniques have the potential to provide for elaboration tolerance, knowledge/program maintenance and optimisation of performance. This project aims to develop techniques for building sophisticated declarative robot programs. It aims to achieve this by learning procedural robot programs and turning them into maintainable declarative robot programs.

Robust artificial intelligence planning for hybrid systems. Automated planning, a core area of Artificial Intelligence, can effectively deal with the automatic synthesis of optimised action strategies for discrete system models. Extending the reach of planning to hybrid discrete/continuous systems, under exogenous uncertainty, is a widely open problem which this project will address. This will enable the proactive, and therefore more effective, management of microgrids and other cyber-physical systems, based on forecast information.
