CONS
- why mu-calc? turns out that mu-calc + K has very strange behaviour. 
also, none of the examples use mu-calc, only HM.

"We plan to introduce a framework that introduces Abstract Argumentation to Modal
and Justification Logic. This would be a different approach from the ones that have already
attempted to link argumentation to modal logic (ex. [16, 17, 18])"... 

actually, Dung's paper shows tight connections between non-monotonic logics, such as Reiter's default logic, 
and AA. Q? what is the place of justification logic in default logics?


- structured argumentation theory...
"In the proposed approach, arguments would support propositions of the
language; from these and perhaps other data, we can infer further conclusions."

- timing mechanism... timed-automata are mentioned, but i don't see their relevance 
as they typically handle delays and are not tractable in the multi-clock setting.

- lit review mentions a few papers on distributed RV, but author does not identify 
any as forming a useful/natural basis for his work.

- "Their logic brings a good combination of the concepts we require, but
it lacks explicit interactions between different agents. Yavorskaya introduced such agent
interactions for variations of a two-agent justification logic in [40]. The proposer then
-agent logic to a family of multi-agent justification logics with
interactions between the agents and studied the complexity of these logics [41, 42, 43]
see
[44] for an overview."

so. what is going to be done on the AA+JL side that extends/refines/is novel wrt [44]?
complexity?

PROS
- In the context of Distributed RV, a monitoring component may receive two (or more)
reports, together with their justifications, from other monitoring components. It would need to
determine whether the reports are in conflict with each other;
- author notes relationship between attack relation in AA and neg introspection in JL.
this forms the basis of a number of conjectures etc. 


--
5 Excellent	
4 Very good	
3 Good	
2 Moderate	
1 Poor
--

2.1 Originality and impact of the project

    Originality of the aim, research questions/ hypotheses and approach.
    Project's potential impact on the academic field and society.
    Expected deliverables (e.g. articles or books, patents or other kind of property rights). Dissemination and other communication to the general public and stakeholders.

The aim is to supply the theoretical foundations and build a tool for monitoring properties of distributed systems. 
Monitoring, also called runtime verification, is used after deployment of the system for ensuring reliability, safety, and 
security, and for providing fault containment and recovery. Monitoring of classic non-distributed systems is a 
well-established area in formal methods, e.g., with its own international conference. Monitoring distributed systems, the topic of this paper, 
is much newer, and there are many foundational questions and problems to deal with. 

The proposed approach is to develop a framework for run-time verification of distributed systems, by developing a logic that combines 
epistemic operators, the mu-calculus, justification logic and abstract argumentation theory. Although each ingredient is well-known, 
e.g., epistemic operators are well-known for their use in analysing distributed computation ("Reasoning about knowledge", Fagin et.al.), 
the combination is quite original. 

According to "Challenges in Fault-tolerant Distributed
Runtime Verification" Bonakdarpour et. al., there are a number of open issues in runtime verification:
1. How to model an unreliable distributed RV system?
2. How is the correctness of the underlying system specified?
3. How many different verdicts are needed, and what is their meaning?
4. What is the meaning of a set of verdicts emitted by the monitors?
5. What is the process of giving feedback to the underlying system?

Dealing with even some of these questions would be valuable, both for developing new theory that will impact the fields of logic and verification, 
and for developing tools. The proposal seems to be dealing mainly with 2., and 4. Notably missing from the proposal is any discussion of 1.

The expected deliverables are papers in academic conferences, journals, archives and links on a webpage, as well as a prototype tool of the framework.

4 Very good



2.2 Scientific quality and feasibility

    Scientific quality of the project.
    Is the project described in adequate detail, in terms of, for example, research question and methods? Are project aims clearly specified?
    Feasibility and importance of proposed project. Project plan, work packages, milestones and deliverables.

On the positive side:
- the idea of using justification and argumentation in the context of distributed runtime verification is a good one since a monitor might 
receive a number of inputs/reports (together with their justifications), and have to decide on the best-supported report. 
- the proposer notes a relationship between the attack relation in abstraction argumentation and a particular axiom of justification logic 
(negative introspection). This relationship forms the basis of a number of conjectures. 

On the negative side, the proposal only deals with the specification logic side, and neglects the modeling side. Concretely: what model 
of distributed system will be considered for study?

I also have some doubts about the suitability of some of the choices in the proposed framework:

- Using the mu-calculus, which can express branching-time properties, for monitorability. Why not use a linear-time logic?
In fact, none of the examples in the proposal use fix-point operators. 
 
- Combining the mu-calculus with epistemic operators leads to a logic that, in my opinion, is not very natural, 
e.g., see the examples in "Alternating Epistemic Mu-Calculus", Bulling et. al.

- The proposer writes: "In the proposed approach, arguments would support propositions of the
language; from these and perhaps other data, we can infer further conclusions." and 
"Given an argumentation framework, we may want to distinguish between arguments and propositions...".

There is no mention of structured argumentation theory, e.g., "An abstract framework for argumentation with structured arguments", 
Prakken, which grounds the Dung's abstract framework with premises, conclusions and inferences. 

Aside. Dung's original paper shows tight connections between abstract argumentation and modal logic. These connections 
should be discussed, especially in light of the sentence "We plan to introduce a framework that introduces Abstract Argumentation to Modal
and Justification Logic. This would be a different approach from the ones that have already
attempted to link argumentation to modal logic (ex. [16, 17, 18])..."

- The proposer writes about the need for a "timing mechanism" to infer the order of events from timestamps, and cites 
timed-automata and logic. There is no mention or comparison with Lamport's timestamps ("Time, clocks, and the ordering of events in a distributed system", Lamport) 
which discusses exactly the issue of defining and computing the order of events in systems with clocks that may not be synchronised.

- The literature review mentions a number of papers on distributed runtime verification, but author does not identify any of them as 
forming a useful/natural basis for the proposed work. What is the reason for this?

- The proposer writes that previous work Baltag, Yavorskaya, and the proposer's own work, 
introduced a logic that combines dynamic epistemic logic, multi-agent justification logic, and 
argumentation, and studied the complexity of these logics, e.g. [40]. So, why is this logic not used 
as is? What is going to be novel wrt these works?

(score = 3)

2.3 Principal investigator, other participants and project management

    Relevant knowledge, experience and qualifications of the principal investigator and other participants in the field of the proposed project.
    Experience with national and international collaboration.
    Research environment, infrastructure and resources.
    Management structure and coordination of project.
    Role of graduate students (not applicable to Doctoral student grants).


The proposer 
- has deep knowledge of justification logics, and has recently published on the topic of runtime verification with leading experts who are participants in the project.
- is not an expert in argumentation theory or distributed systems, and this is reflected in the proposal.

The project would support and enhance ties between researchers in Italy, Malta and Reykjavik University.

The structure, resources and management of the project seem adequate. 

The project will hire an MsC student to work on the prototype tool.

(score = 4)

2.4 Impact on career development

    Project relevance to career plans of applicant.
    Future cooperation with host institution.

Funding such a project would have significant and real impact on the career of the applicant who recently completed a PhD and is on his second postdoc.
The project would support and enhance ties between researchers in Italy, Malta and Reykjavik University.

(score = 5)

