--------------
strategically motivated basic research, 

THEMATIC = scientific challenges
- Software for Engineering Design, Synthesis, and Autonomous Systems (FM)
- Model-Based Systems Engineering (FM)
- Collaboration and Interaction (KRR)
- Networked and Distributed Systems (FTDA, Cyberphysical systems, TPS)

------------------


Lennartson: EFAs, SCT, PN
CONEX: synthesis, planning, BPM

A problem that is typically encountered in industrial applications is that the resulting supervisor is not easily comprehensible for the users.

First, modeling such huge systems with explicit state-transition models typically results in an intractable mode

The second problem concerns the ease to understand and implement the supervisor.

We propose general Petri net building blocks for the construction of recipes.

Hierarchical supervisory control for batch processes

-------------------


Sands: Information Flow in Security (interference, leaking), DYNAMIC systems, Fault-tolerance, unreliable systems
CONEX: KALT*, DEL, FTDA

The static verification of secure information flow has been a popular theme in recent programming language research, but information flow policies considered are based on multilevel security which presents a static view of security levels

This work is about specifying and ensuring security in unreliable systems

The particular security characterization we study is <i>non-interference</i>, an information-flow security property which says that public outputs of a program (the <i>low</i> security channel) do not reveal anything about its secrets (the <i>high</i> security inputs). 


it makes its assumptions precise and provides formal guarantees.

---------------------


Bosch: 
CONEX: KRR for large multi-agent systems
The importance of
stressing the components and their connectors of a software
system is generally recognized and has led to better control
over the design, development, and evolution of large and
increasingly dynamic software systems

----------------------
Pellicionne: KRR for specifying properties

CNEX: TL, graded TL for quantitative properties.

Today, property specification patterns provide general rules that help practitioners to qualify order and occurrence, to quantify time bounds, and to express probabilities of events. Nevertheless, a comprehensive framework combining qualitative, real-time, and probabilistic property specification patterns has remained elusive

--------------------------


Heintz: stream-based knowledge processing, autonomous, DYKNOW??
CONEX: time, knowledge

Engineering autonomous agents that display rational and goal-directed behavior in dynamic physical environments requires a steady flow of information from sensors to high-level reasoning components. The gap between sensing and reasoning...
DyKnow is also used to generate event streams representing for example changes in qualitative spatial relations, which are used to detect traffic violations expressed as declarative chronicles. 

-------------
Kragic:
CONEX: verifications of sensor models; epistemic logics; 

Perception is the basis of any interactive autonomous systems.



